

## Problem solving with rational numbers
Adapted from: [Stephan21]

## Materials
 * [Breaking down word problems](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EfGIj55U4BWZqy96wXm1gTUfl-H-k_O9bJZA0LZaHfs/edit)
 * [Opener](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EfGIj55U4BWZqy96wXm1gTUfl-H-k_O9bJZA0LZaHfs/edit)
 * [Problem-solving tic-tac-toe](https://betterlesson.com/lesson/resource/2554825/tic-tac-toe-assignment)
 * [Problem-solving with fractions notes](https://betterlesson.com/lesson/resource/2554831/problem-solving-with-fractions-notes)
 * [Slides](/jmamath7/slides/9.rem)

## Review / Warm-up (14 min)

 * Sign on front table says to take a warm-up and homework from the table
 * [Warm-up](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1WN7I2qxY9EZmdnV2dYamtuc3c)
 * Slides on board indicate homework for the night

## Objectives / Essential Questions 

 * I can solve real world problems involving rational numbers.
 * How do we determine which operation to use to represent a quantity of interest?

## Transition to lesson

 * Review homework (11 minutes)
    - Addition problems (2 minutes)
    - Subtraction problems (3 minutes)
    - Addition of fractions problem (1 minute)
    - Multiplication problems (2 minutes)
    - Division problems (3 minutes)

## Lesson Input / Modeling (7 minutes each)

 * Go over three pairs of problems together
    - Student reads the first problem (30 seconds)
    - Show first problem, picture, which operation chosen (30 seconds)
    - For each fraction problem, have students draw a picture in the blank space. (2 minutes)
    - The answer should be greater than ... less than ... (1 minute)
    - write which operation they choose. (10 seconds)
    - Show an example of writing which operation was chosen. (30 seconds)
    - solve (Together on board, ask how to set it up, what's next) (2 minutes)
    - Reflect on the solution. Does it make sense? What are some checks that I can use? (10 seconds)


## Preparation notes

I am anticipating that students will have difficulty choosing which operation to use when they need to determine how many times one quantity fits into another.

I am also anticipating that students will have difficulty carrying out their plan once they decide to multiply or divide.

Students know that, to find 1/2 of a quantity, we divide by two, and they agree that this is the same as multiplying by 1/2.
To find 3/4 of a quantity, we multiply by 3/4.

Draw a circle to represent the whole amount of brown sugar.
We want to find 3/4 of this amount.
We can illustrate 3/4 by dividing the whole into 4 equal parts and shading in 3 of those parts.
We literally have 3 fourths.

Also, if I divide the whole into 8 parts, each part represents one cup.
The shaded area represents 6 cups.

## Class Activity

### Independent Practice (30 minutes)
 
 * Students work on the Breaking down word problems assignment.

### Ongoing Assessment (5 minutes)

 * Use problems 3 and 4 as an exit ticket.

### Differentiation

 

### Summary/Closure (5 minutes)

[Stephan21]: stephan/21.html
[Adding and Subtracting Signed Decimals]: https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1WN7I2qxY9EUERuZlloVUpicGM
