
# Introduction to Unit Rates

Adapted from: [StephanRP1]

<div id="accordion" markdown="1">

## Objectives / Essential Questions 

 * {!../objectives/2/1.md!} 

## Materials
 * [Warm-up](http://www.jmamath7.org/warmups/7thGradeMathWarmUp031-2x2.pdf)
 * [Opener](https://betterlesson.com/lesson/resource/1966871/opener#download-resource-1966871)
 * [Slides](/jmamath7/slides/12.rem)

## Differentiation
 * None
 
## Preparation notes

 * I am anticipating that 

## Opening procedure (14 min)

 * Students line up in hallway outside the door 

## Homework check procedure (11 minutes)

 * Review homework (11 minutes)
    - Addition problems (2 minutes)
    - Subtraction problems (3 minutes)
    - Addition of fractions problem (1 minute)
    - Multiplication problems (2 minutes)
    - Division problems (3 minutes)

## Lesson Input / Modeling Procedure (7 minutes x2 )
 * Go over three pairs of problems together
    - Student reads the first problem (30 seconds)
    - Show first problem, picture, which operation chosen (30 seconds)
    - For each fraction problem, have students draw a picture in the blank space. (2 minutes)
    - The answer should be greater than ... less than ... (1 minute)
    - write which operation they choose. (10 seconds)
    - Show an example of writing which operation was chosen. (30 seconds)
    - solve (Together on board, ask how to set it up, what's next) (2 minutes)
    - Reflect on the solution. Does it make sense? What are some checks that I can use? (10 seconds)

## Class Activity Procedure (20 minutes)

 * Inquiry Lab to explore unit rate concept
     - Students assigned roles: hopper, timekeeper, counter
     - Students record hop data and write as a rate, then convert into a unit rate.
     - Answer questions about who hopped the most times, how to compare results for different people.
        - Is it fair to compare the number of hops?
        - Who hopped the fastest?
     - Students will look at the results and talk through the results without help.
     - When tables are wrapping up discussion, we discuss as an entire class.

## Summary/Closure (5 minutes)

 *  Table Discussion
    1. What is the purpose of a unit rate? 
    2. How are unit rates useful in making comparisons? 
 * While tables discuss I will walk around and listen in, and then I will have tables share out.  This activity will give me a good sense of if students get the big picture of unit rates.

</div>

{!../refs.md!}
[Adding and Subtracting Signed Decimals]: https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1WN7I2qxY9EUERuZlloVUpicGM
