
# Unit Rates and Complex Fractions

Adapted from: [StephanRP2]

<div id="accordion" markdown="1">

## Materials
 * [Slides](/teaching/slides/13.rem)
 * [Warm-up](/teaching/warmups/7thGradeMathWarmUp035-2x2.pdf)
 * [Opener](13/opener.docx)
<!-- * [Lab](13/lab.pdf)-->
 * [Notes](13/notes.docx)
 * [Homework](13/hw.pdf)

## Objectives / Essential Questions 

 * {{../objectives/2/2.md}}
    - Johnathan can jog $3 \frac{2}{5}$ miles in $\frac{7}{8}$ hour. Find his average speed in miles per hour. 
 * {{../objectives/2/2.md}}

## Summary

 * Warm-up
 * Assign homework
 * Lesson
     - **Part 1: What are complex fractions?** Way of showing division of two fractions. Walk through simple complex fractions with students. One or two together using think aloud: How do we write this as division of fractions? Who remembers how to divide fractions? Go over a word problem:
     - It takes Mrs. Stephan $\frac{1}{4}$ hour to run $1 \frac{1}{2}$ miles. What is her rate in miles per hour? 
     - Want rate in miles per hour, so put miles on top and hours on bottom. How do we divide when we have a mixed number?(Need to change to improper fraction) Students practice with simple examples. 
     - **Part 2: Table Practice.** Coming off some straightforward examples, I want to give students an opportunity to now grapple with the mathematics – and take these complex fractions to the next level. In these table examples, students are not only asked to find unit rates using complex fractions, but also compare these rates. For fun, I often ask my students to take a guess at which one they think is going to be the “winner” based on what is in the problem, and then I have them work it out and get an answer. The beauty of this is that often times they are wrong, so they see that guessing isn’t such a good idea. These examples model the use of complex fractions in the real world, which is mathematical practice 4, and require students to reason abstractly and quantitatively, mathematical practice 2. Additionally, students will need to persevere with problem solving, as I am going to be hands off! (mathematical practice 1). 
     - **Table Discussion**
     - **Homework**

## Differentiation
 * None
 
## Preparation notes

 * I am anticipating that 

## Opening procedure (14 min)

 * Students complete the warm-up

## Homework check procedure (11 minutes)

 * Homework (11 minutes)

## Lesson Input / Modeling Procedure (7 minutes x2 )
 * Go over three pairs of problems together
    - Student reads the first problem (30 seconds)
    - Show first problem, picture, which operation chosen (30 seconds)
    - For each fraction problem, have students draw a picture in the blank space. (2 minutes)
    - The answer should be greater than ... less than ... (1 minute)
    - write which operation they choose. (10 seconds)
    - Show an example of writing which operation was chosen. (30 seconds)
    - solve (Together on board, ask how to set it up, what's next) (2 minutes)
    - Reflect on the solution. Does it make sense? What are some checks that I can use? (10 seconds)

## Class Activity Procedure (20 minutes)

 * Independent Practice (15 minutes)
     - Students work on the Breaking down word problems assignment.
 * Ongoing Assessment (5 minutes)
     - Use problems 3 and 4 as an exit ticket.

## Summary/Closure (5 minutes)

 None

</div>

<p>
{{/teaching/refs.md}}
{!../refs.md!}

{{../objectives/2/2.md}}
</p>

