
# Problem solving with rational numbers

Adapted from: [StephanRP1]

<div id="accordion" markdown="1">

## Objectives / Essential Questions 

 * {{../objectives/2/3.md}}

## Summary

 * Warm-up
 * 
**Relay Race:** To work on fluency with unit rates, students will work with their homogeneous table groups to complete the unit rates relay race.  During the activity, I will monitor progress and sit and work with students/groups that appear to be struggling with the concept. The questions within this activity bring in several of the practices, including mathematical practice 7 – looking for and making use of structure, mathematical practice 1 – persevering with problem solving, mathematical practice 2 – reason abstractly, and mathematical practice 4 – modeling with mathematics. **Summary:** Complete exit ticket. Complete one word problem on the back of the opener. See who is getting it and who is not to determine who to pull aside for additional help.

## Materials
 * [Warm-up](/teaching/warmups/7thGradeMathWarmUp031-2x2.pdf)
 * [Classwork (Relay Race)](14/cw.docx)
 * [Slides](/teaching/slides/9.rem)

## Differentiation
 * None
 
## Preparation notes

 * I am anticipating that 

## Opening procedure (14 min)

 * Students prepare their materials and begin the warm-up

## Homework check procedure (11 minutes)

 * Review homework (11 minutes)

## Lesson Input / Modeling Procedure (7 minutes x2 )
 * Go over three pairs of problems together
    - Student reads the first problem (30 seconds)
    - Show first problem, picture, which operation chosen (30 seconds)
    - For each fraction problem, have students draw a picture in the blank space. (2 minutes)
    - The answer should be greater than ... less than ... (1 minute)
    - write which operation they choose. (10 seconds)
    - Show an example of writing which operation was chosen. (30 seconds)
    - solve (Together on board, ask how to set it up, what's next) (2 minutes)
    - Reflect on the solution. Does it make sense? What are some checks that I can use? (10 seconds)

## Class Activity Procedure (20 minutes)

 * Independent Practice (15 minutes)
     - Students work on the Breaking down word problems assignment.

 * Ongoing Assessment (5 minutes)
     - Use problems 3 and 4 as an exit ticket.

## Summary/Closure (5 minutes)

</div>

{!../refs.md!}
