
# Problem solving with rational numbers

Adapted from: [StephanRP1]

<div id="accordion" markdown="1">

## Objectives / Essential Questions 

 * {!../objectives/2/4.md!}

## Summary

**Self Checking Color Sheet** Students will work to complete 20 unit rate problems without a calculator.  I like for students to get immediate feedback on their efforts, and since there is only 1 of me, a self-checking activity like a color by answer is a good method of providing that immediate feedback.  Thus, students will complete a problem and look for their answer on the scarecrow, and should they choose to color (I don't force them to color, but most like the short break after a problem) they color the corresponding section of the picture whatever color the number says (for example, if question 1 is red, and the answer is 54 - anywhere they see a 54 on the picture they color it red).  While students are working on the assignment, I am freed up to assist as necessary, as I am not bogged down by "is this right?" "can you look at this?"  When completing the problems, students are urged to keep trying until they can arrive at an answer on the picture (mathematical practice 1).  Working with complex fractions and units requires students to be very careful with operations and units (mathematical practice 6).  As students become more comfortable with the problems, they are able to develop shortcuts for making the problems easier (mathematical practice 8) - for example, looking for the term "per" to help them determine the numerator and denominator of the rate. **Summary:** Table discussion: What is unit rate? Complex fractions, jumped into word problems. Make sure they understand what unit rate means. How would you define it? Have tables share their definitions. Provide positive reinforcement through learner profile tickets. Ensure that when they see a question asking about unit rate that they have an understanding of what they are looking for.

## Materials
 * [Warm-up](/teaching/warmups/7thGradeMathWarmUp031-2x2.pdf)
 * [Slides](/teaching/slides/9.rem)

## Differentiation
 * None
 
## Preparation notes

 * I am anticipating that 

## Opening procedure (14 min)

 * Students line up in hallway outside the door 

## Homework check procedure (11 minutes)

 * Review homework (11 minutes)
    - Addition problems (2 minutes)
    - Subtraction problems (3 minutes)
    - Addition of fractions problem (1 minute)
    - Multiplication problems (2 minutes)
    - Division problems (3 minutes)

## Lesson Input / Modeling Procedure (7 minutes x2 )
 * Go over three pairs of problems together
    - Student reads the first problem (30 seconds)
    - Show first problem, picture, which operation chosen (30 seconds)
    - For each fraction problem, have students draw a picture in the blank space. (2 minutes)
    - The answer should be greater than ... less than ... (1 minute)
    - write which operation they choose. (10 seconds)
    - Show an example of writing which operation was chosen. (30 seconds)
    - solve (Together on board, ask how to set it up, what's next) (2 minutes)
    - Reflect on the solution. Does it make sense? What are some checks that I can use? (10 seconds)

## Class Activity Procedure (20 minutes)

 * Independent Practice (15 minutes)
     - Students work on the Breaking down word problems assignment.

 * Ongoing Assessment (5 minutes)
     - Use problems 3 and 4 as an exit ticket.

## Summary/Closure (5 minutes)

</div>

{!../refs.md!}
