
# Problem solving with rational numbers

Adapted from: [StephanRP1]

<div id="accordion" markdown="1">

## Objectives / Essential Questions 

 * {!../objectives/2/5.md!}

## Summary

**Discovery Activity** Students discover proportional relationships without teacher input, so that they can. Activity walks through determining how far a tortoise travels in one second. Look at bar diagram, complete table, calculate ratios. Asked what do you notice about ratios and how does tortoise travel in relation to time? They will determine that tortoise travels 3.5 inches per second, a constant speed (a constand distance per second). Two reflection questions: Suppose a tortoise travels for 12 seconds. How far do you think he can go? Do you think he travels at a constant speed? This does everything that the lesson does but in an informal manner. Lesson is easy, students probably already know how to do it, but may not know the name for the concepts? **Notes on proportional and nonprp** Proportional relationship: relationship between quantities where the ratio of one to the other is constant. Question: Do you think the tortoise was proportional? Yes, he traveled at a constant speed (always 3.5 inches per second). Think aloud: Alberto types 45 wpm. Is this proportional or not? Students make table, calculate ration of words per time. Ratios are ... The common ratio is ... The relationship is (proportional/nonproportional). Think aloud: Table already filled out. Ask to determine whether proportional or not. What do you think we should do? Set up ratios. Proportional or nonproportional? Do you think she traveled at a constant speed? Example with fixed cost and hourly cost for a boat ride. Have students discuss. Chime in if they are struggling. Allow student to struggle with the math. Students need to dig in and figure out what is going on. End examples with a note: When you calculate ratios between quantities in tables, you are actually calculating what? Unit rate. This connection will help when setting up and using equations and graphs. **Summary:** To summarize this lesson, I will have students have a table discussion on the question:  To determine if a relationship was proportional or not, we looked for a constant ratio.  What do you think the technical term for this constant ratio is?  In the next lesson, we will move towards identifying the constant of proportionality, k, and writing equations.  This summary activity is a lead in to that. I am almost confident that no groups will come up with “constant of proportionality,” but it is fun to see! I am not going to tell them if no one gets it, they will have to stay tuned tomorrow!

## Materials
 * [Warm-up](/teaching/warmups/7thGradeMathWarmUp031-2x2.pdf)
 * [Slides](/teaching/slides/9.rem)

## Differentiation
 * None
 
## Preparation notes

 * I am anticipating that 

## Opening procedure (14 min)

 * Students line up in hallway outside the door 

## Homework check procedure (11 minutes)

 * Review homework (11 minutes)
    - Addition problems (2 minutes)
    - Subtraction problems (3 minutes)
    - Addition of fractions problem (1 minute)
    - Multiplication problems (2 minutes)
    - Division problems (3 minutes)

## Lesson Input / Modeling Procedure (7 minutes x2 )
 * Go over three pairs of problems together
    - Student reads the first problem (30 seconds)
    - Show first problem, picture, which operation chosen (30 seconds)
    - For each fraction problem, have students draw a picture in the blank space. (2 minutes)
    - The answer should be greater than ... less than ... (1 minute)
    - write which operation they choose. (10 seconds)
    - Show an example of writing which operation was chosen. (30 seconds)
    - solve (Together on board, ask how to set it up, what's next) (2 minutes)
    - Reflect on the solution. Does it make sense? What are some checks that I can use? (10 seconds)

## Class Activity Procedure (20 minutes)

 * Independent Practice (15 minutes)
     - Students work on the Breaking down word problems assignment.

 * Ongoing Assessment (5 minutes)
     - Use problems 3 and 4 as an exit ticket.

## Summary/Closure (5 minutes)

</div>

{!../refs.md!}
