
# Equations of Proportional Relationships - Who needs a table?

Adapted from: [StephanRP6]

<div id="accordion" markdown="1">

## Objectives / Essential Questions 

 * {!../objectives/2/6.md!}
 * What is the defining feature of a proportional relationship?
 * How do we tell whether or not a relationship is proportional?
 * What is the constant ratio called?
 * How do we use the constant ratio to form an equation for a proportional relationship?

## Procedural knowledge

 * To express a proportional relationship using an equation, the first thing we need to find is the constant ratio, called the constant of proportionality.
 * If given a table, the constant ratio is always found by taking the ratio y/x
 * If given a word problem, how do they determine what the y and the x are? Look at what your question is asking. You want the answer to the question to be your y. (If you are looking for a number of miles, you want y to be your miles and x to be your hours.)

## Materials
 * [Warm-up handout](/teaching/warmups/7thGradeMathWarmUp043-2x2.pdf)
 * [Opener handout](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1q-Q25p3pVikkogUaH8uoq4BvBQ_LgkE7)
 * [Proportional Relationships Notes handout]()
 * [Notes handout](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1TuECf6F0LD_GWdfiNgxvi8BU5YfilbvD)
 * [Classwork handout](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1Uensva-OmVg2tAiU0snff91qQAfYY3ww)
 * [Warm-up slides](/teaching/warmups/solutions_43.rem)
 * [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CHZKYrzHuoVE79cFH5XKOF_1yyjnF1Vrt0GbAMoMf3E/edit#slide=id.g25d336dc3f_0_0)
 * [Attendance charts](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1p8gKbN4W3dUf_X32jJ0vnJnMgo04rs56)
 * [Seating charts]
 * [Maze Game](https://app.discoveryeducation.com/learn/techbook/units/B982651B-CE2B-4127-B13E-3187C41A5B84/concepts/9E2E5C6F-7AC3-4D41-9ABF-7670D2749C26)
 * [Multiply and Divide Rational Numbers CFU](https://app.discoveryeducation.com/learn/player/a99ef539-ccf6-42fe-b28e-ca325e4dd7df)
 * Other: pre-sharpened pencils, seating charts

## Differentiation
 * Think about how to differentiate instruction, so that I can get students who are doing fine to work independently, and students who need extra help to work with me.
     - How Many Television Commercials Do You See in a Year?
     - [Link](https://app.discoveryeducation.com/learn/techbook/units/ffa7edd3-ffdd-484d-b2a7-9c8cf5eed7fd/concepts/8c35d166-a86d-45b0-8161-ba4eb42b6203/tabs/6dc41756-43ff-4f63-bd11-3148dd938983/pages/947afe80-3d84-48c8-b12c-af0da952fdd6)
 
## Preparation

 * Get __ JMA Day sheets
 * Write students' names on JMA Day sheets.
 * Create posters about staying seated and raising hands
 * Write objective, agenda, and homework on the board
 * Load slides
 * Print and organize handouts

## Opening procedure (1st block)
 
 * As students enter the classroom, hand out JMA day sheets and instruct students to staple them to the inside covers of their agendas. Mark students who have been given JMA Day sheets.
 * Check students' desks for their materials: pencil, math notebook, agenda, pen, two-pocket folder, glue stick
 * Distribute manila envelopes to students who do not have agendas.
 * Have students pass around stapler. Monitor use of stapler.

## Opening procedure (14 min)

 * Instruct students to line up quietly, single file along the wall, between my door and Ms. Marsh's door.
 * I instruct students who are following expectations to enter the classroom, take the lesson opener from the front table, and begin working.
 * Repeat instructions for lining up to the remaining students, and continue to give instructions to students who are listening for entering the classroom and beginning their assignment.

## Opening procedure (5th block)

 * Instruct students to read and follow the instructions on the screen as they enter the classroom. Remind them that the warmup is on the front table.

## Homework preview

 * Have students look at the homework problems and provide some ideas about how to solve the problems.

## Lesson Input / Modeling Procedure (7 minutes)
 * Concept of proportionality
     - Take out your notes titles "Proportional and Non-proportional Relationships" (Have this on the screen).
     - Check students' notes, and assess how much they have completed.
     - Students complete notes and then glue into notebooks.
     - When finished they can get a Chromebook and work on DiscoveryEd assignment.
     - If necessary demonstrate checking whether a relationship is proportional.
     - Have students work with me in small groups if they need help.
     - Guide the completion of the notes, students practice distinguishing between proportional and non-proportional relationships
     - 
 * Show a picture of the notion of a constant ratio, and the relationship with multiplication.
 * **New material:** We ended with hanger of what the constant ratio is called. Notes: To express a proportional relationship using an equation, the first thing we need to find is the constant ratio, called the constant of proportionality. 
 * Go over four problems together
     - find constant of proportionality and equation from tables
     - Cashews

## Class Activity Procedure (20 minutes)

 * Students practice with the "homework" problems

## Summary/Closure (5 minutes)

  1. **Summary:** To summarize this lesson, I will have students write answers to the question:  How is writing an equation helpful for solving problems?
  2. I want to hear students discussing how writing the equation makes it easier because you can just multiply to find answers to large problems, instead of having to continue a pattern in a table.

</div>

{!../refs.md!}
