
# Equations of Proportional Relationships - Fluency Practice!

Adapted from: [StephanRP7]

<div id="accordion" markdown="1">

## Objectives / Essential Questions 

 * {!../objectives/2/6.md!}
 * What is the defining feature of a proportional relationship?
 * How do we tell whether or not a relationship is proportional?
 * What is the constant ratio called?
 * How do we use the constant ratio to form an equation for a proportional relationship?

## Procedural knowledge

 * To express a proportional relationship using an equation, the first thing we need to find is the constant ratio, called the constant of proportionality.
 * If given a table, the constant ratio is always found by taking the ratio y/x
 * If given a word problem, how do they determine what the y and the x are? Look at what your question is asking. You want the answer to the question to be your y. (If you are looking for a number of miles, you want y to be your miles and x to be your hours.)

## General Materials
 * [Attendance charts](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1p8gKbN4W3dUf_X32jJ0vnJnMgo04rs56)
 * [Seating charts](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1l1gW3AKzuQeasADwg3pzaBuMIKN1R9EzxdxQ-W6h6VY)
 * Pre-sharpened pencils, pencil signout sheet
 * Chromebook assignments table

## Materials
 * [Warm-up handout](/teaching/warmups/7thGradeMathWarmUp043-2x2.pdf)
 * [Warm-up slides](/teaching/warmups/solutions_43.rem)
 * [Opener handout](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1q-Q25p3pVikkogUaH8uoq4BvBQ_LgkE7)
 * [Classwork handout](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1Uensva-OmVg2tAiU0snff91qQAfYY3ww)
 * [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CHZKYrzHuoVE79cFH5XKOF_1yyjnF1Vrt0GbAMoMf3E/edit#slide=id.g25d336dc3f_0_0)

## Differentiation
 * Think about how to differentiate instruction, so that I can get students who are doing fine to work independently, and students who need extra help to work with me.
     - How Many Television Commercials Do You See in a Year?
     - [Link](https://app.discoveryeducation.com/learn/techbook/units/ffa7edd3-ffdd-484d-b2a7-9c8cf5eed7fd/concepts/8c35d166-a86d-45b0-8161-ba4eb42b6203/tabs/6dc41756-43ff-4f63-bd11-3148dd938983/pages/947afe80-3d84-48c8-b12c-af0da952fdd6)
 
## Preparation

 * Create posters about staying seated and raising hands
 * Write objective, agenda, and homework on the board
 * Load slides
 * Print and organize handouts

## Opening procedure (1st block)
 
 * Greet students and check that they do not have prohibited items.
 * Instruct students to read and follow the instructions on the screen as they enter the classroom.
     - Remind them that the warmup is on the front table.
     - Remind them that they are to go to their seat once they enter the classroom.
 * Check students' desks for their materials: pencil, math notebook, agenda, pen, two-pocket folder, glue stick

## Procedure (1st block)

 * Announce quiz on Proportional Relationships
 * Pass back Homework and Equations of Proportional Relationships Notes
 * Homework feedback
 * Show the document on the screen

 * Equations of Proportional Relationships Notes feedback
 * Show the document on the screen
 * Nobody quite got this 100% correct
 * Every problem says to "Write an equation ..."
 * Determine what x and y are.
 * Find the constant of proportionality ($k=$)
 * Write an equation of the form $y=kx$
 * Present slides for each problem, repeating the fact that they should have $k= \ldots$ and an equation of the form $y=kx$ for each problem

 * Mini-lesson

 * Give students the Classwork on Equations of Proportional relationships (Students who have finished this already work in workbook or get Versatiles handout)
 * Instructions for completion:
    - Each problem should have four things, the units for $x$ and $y$, the constant of proportionality ($k= \ldots$), an equation in the form $y=kx$, and the answer to the question.

 * Individualized instruction:
    - Rhyli
    - Bernice
    - Kimberly

 * Exit ticket
     - Students get Chromebooks
     - Present the Schoolnet exit ticket access code

## Procedure (5th block)

 * Pull aside students who did not write equations

## Opening procedure (4th block)

 * Instruct students to line up quietly, single file along the wall, between my door and Ms. Marsh's door.
 * Start a conversation with Royannah
 * I instruct students who are following expectations to enter the classroom, take the lesson opener from the front table, and begin working.
 * Repeat instructions for lining up to the remaining students, and continue to give instructions to students who are listening for entering the classroom and beginning their assignment.
     - Provide specific praise to students who are following instructions
     - Monitor Kendal, Jazmine, Darren, Kyrell, Yannick, Tre

## Opening procedure (5th block)

 * Present opening procedure instructions on the screen
 * Instruct students to read and follow the instructions on the screen as they enter the classroom. Remind them that the warmup is on the front table.
 * Ensure that students have their agendas and JMA Day sheets out on their desks
 * Give Me Five! with Alex McMath

## Homework preview

 * Have students look at the homework problems and provide some ideas about how to solve the problems.

## Lesson Input / Modeling Procedure (7 minutes)
 * Concept of proportionality

## Class Activity Procedure (20 minutes)

 * Students practice with the "homework" problems

## Summary/Closure (5 minutes)

  1. **Summary:** To summarize this lesson, I will have students write answers to the question:  How is writing an equation helpful for solving problems?

</div>

{!../refs.md!}
