

## Adding and subtracting integers using a number line
Adapted from: [Stephan21]

## Materials
 * [Number line tool]
 * [Integer operations problems](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EfGIj55U4BWZqy96wXm1gTUfl-H-k_O9bJZA0LZaHfs/edit)

## Procedure

### Group 1
 * Group 1 students go through the Unit 1 Review slides.

### Group 2
 * Group 2 students get Chromebooks from the cart. I hand them the assignment when they come to pick up their Chromebooks. They need to bring their notebooks to the Chromebook cart and show me that they have the correct Chromebook number written in their notebooks.
 * Students open Chromebooks and go to the [Number line tool]
 * Model using the number line tool
     - I will represent the addition problem $-2+3$.
        1. To represent $-2$, click the left arrow twice.
        3. To represent adding $3$ (the second number in the sum) first click the button that says **Second Number.**
        4. Click the right arrow $3$ times to represent adding $3$.
        5. Read off the number at the end of the blue arrow.
        6. Click reset to start over.
 * Go through procedure with students:
      - We will represent the addition problem $4+3$ together.
      - Once everyone has represented $4+3$ using the tool, we will represent the addition problem $4+(-3)$ together.
      - Students will be instructed to change $4+(-3)$ to $4+(-4)$ and then $5+(-5)$.
      - Students will be instructed to represent $5+(-5)$ and then $6+(-6). What do we notice about these? How can it be explained in terms of the arrows?
      - The two numbers have the same absolute value but opposite signs.
 * Have students go through the assignment, using the number line tool to represent each. Check student work, and instruct them to show me how to use the number line tool to answer any questions they got wrong.

## Review / Warm-up (10 min)

 * Sign on front table says to take a warm-up and homework from the table
 * [Warm-up](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1WN7I2qxY9EZmdnV2dYamtuc3c)
 * Slides on board indicate homework for the night

## Objectives / Essential Questions 

 * I can solve real world problems involving rational numbers.
 * How do we determine which operation to use to represent a quantity of interest?

## Transition to lesson

## Lesson Input / Modeling (3 minutes)

 * Present each of the word problems involving whole numbers.
 * For each problem, present the corresponding problem involving rational numbers.


## Preparation notes

Students know that, to find 1/2 of a quantity, we divide by two, and they agree that this is the same as multiplying by 1/2.
To find 3/4 of a quantity, we multiply by 3/4.

Draw a circle to represent the whole amount of brown sugar.
We want to find 3/4 of this amount.
We can illustrate 3/4 by dividing the whole into 4 equal parts and shading in 3 of those parts.
We literally have 3 fourths.

Also, if I divide the whole into 8 parts, each part represents one cup.
By he shaded area represents 6 cups.

## Class Activity

### Independent Practice (30 minutes)
 
 * Students work on the Breaking down word problems assignment.

### Ongoing Assessment (5 minutes)

 * Use the last problem as an exit ticket.

### Differentiation

 

### Summary/Closure (5 minutes)

[Stephan21]: stephan/21.html
[Adding and Subtracting Signed Decimals]: https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1WN7I2qxY9EUERuZlloVUpicGM
[Number line tool]: http://www.saddleback.edu/faculty/lperez/algebra2go/tools/addsubnumline/index.html
