

## Objective: I can add and subtract signed decimals
Adapted from: [Stephan16]

## Review / Warm-up (10 min)

 * Sign on front table says to take a warm-up and homework from the table
 * [Warm-up](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1WN7I2qxY9Ea180bWdXcFdQNGs)
 * Slides on board indicate homework for the night

## Objectives / Essential Questions 

 * I can add and subtract signed fractions
 * How do the rules for adding and subtracting integers apply to adding and subtracting signed decimals?

## Transition to lesson

## Lesson Input / Modeling (8 minutes)

 * Review definition of rational numbers and diagram (3 minutes)
 * Teacher presents slides, student copy the objective in notebooks
 * student complete guided note-taking on the [Adding and Subtracting Signed Decimals] handout.
     - line up the decimal points

## Class Activity

### Guided Practice 
  * Go through 3 examples to get students in the right mindset to know what kind of questions they should ask themselves when adding and subtracting signed decimals.
  * 5.67 + (-1.35)
  * Have students cover up decimals with their fingers, How would you do 5+-1 (Addition, different signs, we will subtract) How do we know the sign of our answer? (5 is bigger, so it will be positive). 
  * Go on an set up 5.67-1.35.
  * Finally, we know the answer will be positive since 5.67 is greater than 1.35.
  * -6.82 - 8.47
  * How do you do -6-8? Change subtraction to addition, -6+(-8).

#### Small Group Practice (20 minutes)
 * Students do the other 6 exercises with their tables.
 * Facilitate appropriate behavior, to make sure that we are focused and on task.
 * Once students are wrapping up the 6 answers, I will have students go to board and share their answers. After we get through the examples, move on to puzzle sheet.

#### Independent Practice (10 minutes)
 * Puzzle sheet

### Ongoing Assessment (5 minutes)
 * Exit ticket with one problem?

### Summary/Closure (2 minutes)
 * Restate the objective and review the notes that we took at the beginning of the lesson.

[Stephan16]: stephan/16.html
[Adding and Subtracting Signed Decimals]: https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1WN7I2qxY9EUERuZlloVUpicGM
